<ul>
<li><strong>Problem 2.1</strong>
<ul>
<li>(HexaCAPTCHA). CAPTCHAs (Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart) are popular ways of preventing bots from attempting to log on to systems by extensively searching the password space. In its traditional form, an image is given which contains a few characters (sometimes with some obfuscation thrown in). The challenge is to identify what those characters are and in what order. In this assignment, we wish to crack these challenges.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Your Data.</strong>
<ul>
<li>Each CAPTCHA image in this assignment will be 500 &times; 150 pixels in size. Each image will contain a code that is a 4 digit hexadecimal number. The font of all these characters would be the same, as would be the font size. The Latin characters A-F will always be in upper case. However, each character may be rotated (degree of rotation will always be either 0 ◦ , &plusmn;10◦ , &plusmn;20◦ , &plusmn;30◦ and each character may be rendered with a different color. The background color of each image can also change. However, all background colors are light in shade. Each image also has some stray lines in the background which are of varying thickness, varying color and of a shade darker than that of the background. These stray lines are intended to make the CAPTCHAs more &ldquo;interesting&rdquo; and realistic.</li>
<li>Hexadecimal numbers are written in base 16 i.e. there are 16 &ldquo;digits&rdquo; instead of the usual 10. These digits are 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, A, B, C, D, E, F. The last six digits have values going from 10 to 15 i.e. A = 10, B = 11, C = 12 etc. Thus, the hexadecimal number 10 is equal to the decimal number 1 &times; 161 + 0 &times; 160 = 16 and the hexadecimal number DECAF is equal to the decimal number D &times; 164 + E &times; 163 + C &times; 162 + A &times; 161 + F &times; 160 = 13 &times; 164 + 14 &times; 163 + 12 &times; 162 + 10 &times; 161 + 15 &times; 160 = 912559. Your task is to figure out whether the 4 digit hexadecimal number in the image is odd or even.</li>
<li>Your task is to predict for each image, whether the hexadecimal number in that image is even or odd. If the number is even, your output should be the string &ldquo;EVEN&rdquo; (without quotes) else your output should be the string &ldquo;ODD&rdquo; (without quotes). Take care not to make spelling or case mistakes. To take the above two numbers as examples, the hexadecimal number 10 is even since it corresponds to the decimal number 16 which is even whereas the hexadecimal number DECAF is odd since it corresponds to the decimal number 912559 which is odd.</li>
<li>You have been provided with 2000 training images (see the subdirectory train) in the assignment package. The correct parities (odd/even) for the hex number present in each image are collected in the file labels.txt. In addition to this you have also been given reference images (see the subdirectory reference in the assignment archive) for all 16 characters 0-9, A-F in a standardized form with a white background. This is to simply give you a handy reference on what unrotated images of characters look like if all color information is removed. You may use these reference images in any way you wish, including as training or validation data i.e., there is no restriction on their usage</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
